in an earlier video we saw the structure
of the convolutional neuron and how many
of these neurons in the form of filters
are um you know coming together to form
a layer and how the multiple layers are
coming again together stacked uh to uh
implement this uh binary classification
task uh in this uh video that we have
looked at on cats versus dogs now we
will be using exactly the same uh model
that we have built for that kind of task
and in this specific case what we were
interested now to see is to validate
what we have said earlier about the some
kind of a structure or pattern that we
see in the features uh that the
convolution UN networks kind of learn so
in this notebook borrowed from the book
deep learning with python what we
actually uh can see a couple of things
the first is the so-called U uh the
intermediate
convolution Network outputs uh these are
effectively what are each layer kind of
presents to the layer above it and I
think it's worthwhile kind of going
through that first and uh as we said
this is uh the sort of exactly the same
architecture we have seen earlier for
that specific data set and this is the
input images um the uh 100 approximately
150 by 150 pixels and natural Rec col
images and uh this is the uh you know
first layer what it really learns and as
you can see uh the output of the output
kind of feature map it kind of presents
uh an almost
identical uh figure to the um sort of
input uh picture input image except that
uh this uh image over here emphasizes
the edge
so these are the as we said the
Primitive kind of shapes that the first
initial layers of the conet are actually
learning and we can actually go and look
at each and every
layer and uh I think the over here I
think this this IM figure over here
shows what is really uh happening so the
initial layers are learning um I will
call it a visual content the same kind
of visual content as as our eyes kind of
see in the image um let's say you can
very clearly see uh the shape and form
of of the of the cut over here but as we
actually going further deeper into the
network then the representations that
are actually being created are becoming
um more and more abstract to the point
where this is the fifth layer as you can
see from that point onwards we still see
some of the um feature maps that are
being created remember the feature maps
that are being created are volumes so
what actually we see here are the uh
flattened version of those volumes so we
plot here the special
dimensions that are coming at at the
output uh on each image but we are
effectively flattening uh all of the uh
filters that we have U used um all of
the all of the depth of the feature maps
that we have used uh to to to create
this uh volume so here you have the um
sixth layer the seventh layer as you can
see here we from the seventh layer
onwards we are not really able to see uh
any
um any of the um sort of visual
characteristics of of a cut so this
become a fairly abstract kind of
representation here you can actually
also see very clearly the impact of Max
pooling and how we can actually start
with a representation and what is the
max pooling operator with a cal of 2 2x
two is actually doing is actually
picking at the more essential kind of uh
in features that are presented to it so
if you compare this image and this image
uh and uh so that's effectively at this
point we have the representations that
um are going to be needed after the
stochastic rated descent kind of
converges and provided we don't have any
over fitting and so on uh these
representations are the ones that we are
going to be
flattening uh to and then feed them into
the uh fully connected layers that
constitute our head and if everything
goes okay this head will actually see
and work on those representations to
actually do the binary
classification Okay so
this is what we have seen uh we can
actually see in the uh feature maps and
I think it's also worthwhile
understanding what we actually see now
in uh as far as the filters what really
the filters the contents of those
filters are to visualize those filters
what we actually do is we Define a
specific loss function the details are
kind of outside of this course of the
scope of this course but the at a high
level what we do is we try to find
input images that maximize the
activations that those filters produce
and uh therefore in the process of doing
so we are able to um out of this
optimization process to retrieve those
filter values so here we see uh just the
first 64 filters out of the many more
that we have used I think uh we used all
the way up to 256 filters but we here we
see the first 64 filters in a 8 by8 kind
of pattern and uh as you can actually
see uh the U this filter over here is
uh for the various kind of layers so
these are effectively we have the layers
going from the beginning of this um fil
of the the beginning of the network uh
all the way to the U towards the uh just
before the head of this uh so this is
the last layer just before the head and
as you can actually see here
uh in every layer uh we learn
effectively a collection of these
filters that it will uh
decompose um the input image the input
the input feature maps are being
decomposed so if you go back to what we
have discussed earlier about the
operation of uh uh the convolutional
kind of neuron uh so imagine that you
have now not only just one filter but
you have let's say 64 of them
so the each one of those filters is one
component out of the let's say 64 that
the input feature map will be DEC
composed so you can read about this as
those are the uh components of that
decomposition so this uh so in the last
kind of layer over here we have 64
components um for those who have uh some
background on principal component
analysis there's some something to it
along those lines uh but the the
composition over here is uh
definitely um exactly the same as any
other decomposition it's just that these
components as the layers are becoming
deeper and deeper are uh these
components are are are you know look
quite different and uh this as you can
see here uh the filters are simpler in
the first uh layers uh and become
more and more
complicated uh in the subsequent kind of
layers to match uh the um uh sort of
nonv visual uh intuitively visual
complexities that we have seen in the
output activation Maps or feature Maps
uh that we have seen uh earlier